Project Title: XData Extensions 1

Team Members:

Satyankar Chandra (22B0967)

Ayan Tanwar (22B0931)

Gourish Garg (22B0915)

Harsh Kumar (22B0973)

Project Type: Premium

Description:
We’d like to build more on the description already provided in the spreadsheet -

Extend XData to support in-browse postgresql execution using https://pglite.dev/. Make sure everything runs from local resources so it can be run for exams without external internet. This allow each user to run in their own database without accessing any central database. The next step is to extend XData system to run the queries in browser rather than on a backend database.

Apart from this broader overview, here are some features our team wants to build. We’re listing them in roughly the order of ease of implementation we feel right now.

Query Profiling and runtime analysis -

Every SQL query has a number of subqueries and steps to execute in the database. We want to provide students the runtime analysis of all these individual steps on larged sized sample data so that they can use this information to optimize their queries before submitting. This will help students write cleaner queries.

Query Optimization Hints -

Similar to (1) by using EXPLAIN and EXPLAIN ANALYZE to provide hints to the students.

Client Side Autograding -

We want to shift the XData grading from the server side to the client side while ensuring that answers are not leaked. This will allow us to conduct offline exams without having high server loads or any other dependence.

Concurrent Queries -

We saw on the website that pgLite supports multiple database connections within a single browser session, allowing multiple queries to run in parallel. We want to add this to XData as well.

Query Constraints -

Using the parser pgLite provides we can enforce constraints on XData to only allow specific features / specific views available to the students. This can be used when we design an assignment around just 1 concept.

Partial Grading -

Currently XData grades students’ answers on a binary basis, we want to make it more granular by parsing the query and exploring its AST. Right not it’s not very clear how we’d implement this, but we would like to try.

Saving Progress and other QoL improvements -

Not particularly related to pgLite but we would like to implement partial saving of students’ answers on the XData platform and a couple of small features here and there.

 

These are the initial set of ideas we have for our project. We are open to discussing and modifying these ideas. Our team is very enthusiastic about the project and hope that we have some meaningful contributions to the existing XData platform by the end of this semester.